=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

I<clip-devutils> - clip-developpment utilities.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The clip-devutils package installs a number of small utility
scripts tailored to the CLIP development process. This manpage
simply lists the available commands - for further information,
the reader should refer to each commands's inline help, by
running B<command> -h.

=head1 COMMANDS

=head3 Source management utilities

=over 20

=item B<clip-bump>

Bump an ebuild to a new version, and update the corresponding
changelog file.

=item B<clip-changes>

Displays a summary of changes between two Clip versions by parsing the Clip
conf packages' ChangeLogs.

=item B<clip-patch-split>

Split a patch into several patches, one per affected file.

=item B<clip-vcs>

Usefull to backport some parts of a portage tree and distfiles.
Get current Clip main packages versions, and display ebuilds ChangeLog updates.

=back

=head3 Build utilities

=over 20

=item B<clip-cpdistfile>

Cleanly copy files and create symlinks in the distfiles or distfiles-dev
directory.

=item B<clip-mkdistfile>

Cleanly create a distfile tarball.

=item B<clip-getdistfile>

Generate the distfile from the project's repository.

=item B<clip-make>

Helper to clean, build, sign and sync packages (if needed) according to a
custom list.

=back

=head3 Binary package utilities

=over 20

=item B<clip-checkconfig>

Check the dependencies of a configuration package.

=item B<clip-cleanconfigs>

Remove the packages that are no longer referenced by one or several
configurations.

=item B<clip-dpkg>

Print or check Clip package use flags.

=item B<clip-prunepkgs>

Remove packages that are obsoleted by newer versions.

=back

=head3 Signature utilities

=over 20

=item B<clip-checksign>

List packages that don't include signatures.

=item B<clip-sign>

Sign packages.

=back

=head3 Bootstrap utilities

=over 20

=item B<clip-installer-bootstrap>

Builds a CLIP livecd SquashFS (in /opt/clip-installer/squashfs-root) suitable
for building an installation medium.

=item B<clip-sdk-bootstrap>

Builds a new, clean CLIP SDK rootfs (in /opt/clip-sdk/rootfs).

=back


=head1 FILES

Several utilities need local configuration items, which are read from a
single file, F</etc/clip-build.conf>. An initial version of that file
should have been installed by the I<clip-build> package.

F</usr/share/clip-devutils/tools/> - Miscellaneous scripts for a devstation or a debug Clip machine.

F</usr/share/clip-devutils/lxc/> - Clip SDK configuration for LXC.

=head1 AUTHOR

Yves-Alexis Perez <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>, Vincent Strubel
<L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>> and Mickaël Salaün
<L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<clip-build(7)|clip-build>

=cut
